Witch Hat and the Magic of Computer Science

About a week ago, I picked up the Tongari Boushi no Atelier
(とんがり帽子のアトリエ) manga series. And right off the bat,
more than a few aspects greatly impressed me about this
serialisation.

The stupendously stupefying and intricately detailed
illustrations; the masterful manipulation of the panels on the
page, the deft placement and potent usage of negative space,
and an extremely compelling fantasy epic to weave it all
through. These are all the elements that made me fall in love
with Witch Hat Atelier within its initial few pages. But what 
impressed me most of all is the beautifully uncanny way its
power system fits the world of Computer Science.

The most ostensible place this similarity is depicted is in the 
detailed inner workings of the power system itself.

Runes can be interpreted as main, the entry point to a program,
the code that roughly defines what an app shall do when it's run.

Keystones would be the variables a program uses during its
execution. The data within them can obviously vary in type,
amount, length, and shape. These manipulations in the variables
then go on to dictate exactly how a process will behave.

Glyphs are the classic closing of a circuit. The compilation of a
program, or ./a.out for the highly initiated. That magical moment
when you get to see the effects of the magic you drew/code you
wrote.

The Witch Hat Atelier series is a gorgeous encapsulation of a
truth software engineers around the world know deep in their hearts:
the science of computers is pure magic, and some of it's forbidden!

The way Witch Hat mirrors the world of tech not lies in their magic 
systems. Frankly, I almost want to believe the mangaka wrote code for
FAANG in a previous life the way they've so expertly shown the
clandestine and politically influenced side of the industry.

SPOILER TERRITORY
One of the first major ah-ha moments in the plot is the revelation that
anyone—with the right tools—can draw magic! And that magicians are less
special beings blessed by the gods and fruits of meritocracy, and more
lucky bastards who are the poster children of unfettered nepotism.
Unfortunately, all the same can be said, verbatim, for the tech industry
in our world.

If a Luffy-obsessed idiot from Barbados can learn to code, and I'm pretty
sure I'm more skilled than the Zuckerburger himself. Then obviously the
Tech Lords that rule over us with their magic are not deities, and literally
any fool can learn to code—if only they so desire.

If you don't know how to code, you are not a fool; you are mostly likely
a very intelligent person who enjoys going outside, touching grass, and
having hot, steamy sex in the back of old cars like Rose and Jack. By
comparison, CS is boring, coarse, and it gets absolutely everywhere. You'd
have to be insane to learn, and something far worse to find joy in the Dark 
Art of writing code... what am I even talking about anymore?!

Conclusion
The point is, I love writing/reading code equally as much as I enjoy 
writing/reading prose. I love the things I learn from both disciplines
and the way I feel creating within them. Matter of fact, I wrote this
entire essay in NeoVim via Ghostty powered by my riced-out config files
on both ends!!

Tongari Boushi no Atelier has been a beautiful reminder of why I do both;
of how the power and beauty of both computer code and human prose. It's a
seinen 青年 ode to the creatives; if you consider yourself as such, you
should give it a read. I'm sure it'll at least inspire you to write, and
hopefully you'll even love it as much as I do 😁✌🏾
